# Multiple Perspectives on Data Privacy policy


## The Problem With Too Much Data Privacy 
In Time's [The Problem With Too Much Data Privacy](https://time.com/6224484/data-privacy-problem/) written in October of 2022, they warn of too much data protecion hindering innovation in several related fields. It is important to recognize that they do acknowledge the importance of some policy needed to protect private data, but still believe that too much empahsis on policy change negates any positive effect of having availability to such a plethora of data. It warns of the incorrect assumptions that all data collection is harmful, finding that data can be anonymized in a way to protect privacy and identity. They offer a persuasive example in which facial recognition was banned because body cams were disproportionately profiling persons of color within police surveillience. However, the article warns that banning such technology could hinder surveillence used to keep women safe when traveling alone in dangeorus areas. 

Too much emphasis on privacy also hinders advances in scientific research, medicine and public health. Big data is allowing for more accurate and earlier diagnoses leading to a significant amount of lives being saved. Furthemore, they are making access to life saving technology more affordable and allowing doctors to discover novel solutions to pervasive diseases. The article finds that such advances can only be made with access to more data from a more diverse population. They contend further that pushing for more regulation and more emphasis on data protection will disallow such advances to be made. Further, the instituting of privacy consent forms are counterintiutive as individuals rarely take the time to actually read through them. The question becomes, will barring such privacy safeholds be detrimental for keeping the data anonymous. 

## Importance of Patient Privacy in Healthcare Analytics Research 
In intechopen's [article](https://www.intechopen.com/chapters/1120485), they take an opposion opinion when talking about the importance of privacy policy when it comes to healthcare. They agree that there is a vast amount of healthcare data now made available, and while this could lead to positive results, it is also quite dangerous for the individual. It has become a staple in the medical research practice which prompts this article to further cement the importance of privacy protections surrounding it. In fact, this is not a new revelation as the HIPPA standard in the US and the GDPR in Europe have standardized privacy protection of medical records for several years. It becomes increasingly important to uphold this standard as waves of technological improvement are hitting the healthcare industry year after year. 

They identify one main reason as to why protection of privacy is important and indicate signficant implications of that reason that directly response to the other article. They find that its important to protect the "rights and dignity" of those who participate. Beyond having humanitarian reasoning, they find that a lack of privacy control could hinder the research process. They contend that individuals who believe their privacy to be breached will be less likely to particiapte in such studies and this could hamper the fields ability to develop new and innovative solutions. This point is somewhat conceded to by the opposing article as they themselves admit that individuals are less likely to sacrifice personal privacy for general benefit. However, if they are confident and know that their data will be protected with clear and outline protocols then they would be willing to participate in such studies. Furthermore, in a world with increasing capabilities for hacks and data leaks, its ever more important to institute governmental and company policy to protect individual data. There is no indication from the opposing article that measures currently in place are enough for prevention of data leaking into the wrong hands. 